>> Scott Moss: And now,
we're gonna go over, hopefully,
you had enough time to create
those optimistic responses.
If not, we're gonna do it right now, so
I decided to add the optimistic
response to the createPet.
So I have access to the input arguments,
which is gonna allow me to get as close as
possible to the result of the server,
which is gonna minimize
the interaction of the server data coming
in and replacing the hard coded data
that I'm about to write, because a lot of
that data's gonna be visually displayed.
So the closer I can get to it,
the less that effect is gonna be.
So I'm gonna choose to add my
to the createPet out of here.
So I'm going to say optimistic response,
which is an object.
I'm gonna handle the type name for
the mutation.
And then, I'm going to get the name of
the mutation, which is called addPet.
I'm going to add that there.
And then, the type for addPet,
if you didn't know what that was,
you can go back to your
documents on Apollo Docs.
>> Scott Moss: And you can look at
the schema, you can look at mutation,
you can look at addPet.
And then, you'll see, if I can scroll over
some more here, it returns addPet type.
So that's exactly what I wanna put for
the type name for
the addPet mutation, it's a pet type.
So I'll say typename, pet.
And then, I just wanna get all
the fields from my mutation.
So I'm just gonna copy all these fields
here, make sure I got the exact ones, and
I'm gonna add them.
And here, it's not about
adding the type of the fields,
it's about adding values,
values you suspect the server to return.
So an ID, there's no way we know what
that ID is gonna be from the server.
So we'll just make one up.
We're gonna do something generic.
You can hard code something,
doesn't matter.
I'm just gonna do like rafta floor,
flute rafta floor to a map
dot random times 1000.
Plus a stream, maybe,
maybe, a bigger number.
So he's got a random number there, you
can do date.now, whatever you wanna do,
the name,
we actually get that from the input.
So we can just use input.name for that.
And that's really good, because the names
do show up on that pet card, so
that'd be really good to
not see that switch out.
The type, same thing, input.type,
and an image, right now, our servers
responsible for creating the images, so
we don't really know which one's gonna be,
so I'm just gonna add a placeholder, I got
one here, I'm just gonna add one from
placeholder.com with like the same with,
you can put whatever you want,
there's so many different strategies for
progressively loading in images,
there's literally not one way.
It depends on your UI.
I was telling people you can have,
depending on the type you can load in
a SVG that you have already built into
the app for a dog, or an SVG for a cat.
You can have a blurry image for a dog.
There's so many ways that you can
load this in progressively, but
there is no right or wrong way.
Just know that, because the images
are different that's the one transition
that you probably won't
be able to control.
So that's why there's a lot of creativity
around like how to solve this problem
with images.
But there's other data will be very close,
and
we're not showing the ID on the pet card.
So even though the ID is gonna be
different when it gets replaced,
no one's gonna notice that it's
happening in the background.
The input in the name do
show up in the car, but
they're exact ones that we sent up.
So unless the server modifies these to be
something different than what we sent up,
there and
look exactly the same as well, and
the image is the only one
that's gonna be different.
So if we didn't have any images,
you wouldn't even notice the change
at all after the mutation happened.
You wouldn't even see it, it would just be
there immediately, and then, that's it.
Nothing else would happen.
I am going to save that.
Make sure we got our loading balloon
off of the mutation, save that.
And then, we’ll go back and try it out.
So got a dog here, want to make a new cat,
and call it Carol.
Carol the cat.
And it showed up immediately, we saw
the placeholder image, and then, boom,
the cat popped in.
And the image was the only
thing that changed.
The word Carol and Cat didn't.
It stayed,
because it was exactly the same.
And that's the optimistic update,
which, again, is an alternative
to just showing a loaded screen every
time someone updates something.
Any questions on that?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: If you find optimistic
response in those places, what's so other?
>> Scott Moss: If you define them in both
places, then I believe the order's gonna
be the one that you pass in on
the invocation of the function.
So if I took this one here,
command button.
So I took this optimistic response,
and I go up to here, and I add it here.
And let's say, I change this to,
so we know the difference.
I'll give this a different name.
We'll say from mutation.
And we'll give this,
we'll always call this, well, yeah,
we'll call this a cat always.
So we'll save that, go back here,
make sure that's good.
Cat,
>> Scott Moss: Lilly,
so you can see it took
the one from this one,
because it had the name that I typed in,
this one override it.
Now, if I got rid of this one,
we should have the hardcoded one,
which is always a cat and
always have that name.
From mutations, there we go.
>> Scott Moss: Any other questions?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, what happens on error?
>> Scott Moss: What happens on error?
Good question, so let's see.
So if I add, let's make a error.
Let's put a j there, that's gonna cause
an error, cuz that's not a real field.
So we'll put a j,
they have an optimistic response.
Well, and a new dog, call it, yellow pet.
Your app just broken this case,
and that's because, we
have an error handler
here that breaks the app.
So it's just broken.
That's why you see that problem.
But I guess what you're asking is
like what happens to the cash?
If the air is out?
Well, if nothing ever comes back
from the optimistic response,
the caches is gonna keep that in there.
So yeah.
You'd have to get rid of it.
[LAUGH] Basically, you'll have to
get rid of that thing yourself.
So account for those errors.
Errors are always use cases.